.. _system-core-troubleshooting-sec-00:

Troubleshooting
====================

:link_to_translation:`zh_CN:[中文]`

This page lists common problems and priority checks in the current System Core implementation.

.. _system-core-troubleshooting-sec-01:

Runtime App Path Missing
------------------------

When the log shows ``Runtime app path does not exist``, check:

- Whether LittleFS is mounted on the ESP platform.
- Whether the Device service returned a storage filesystem that supports directories, and the internal/external layout initialized successfully.
- Whether build-time staging copied the package to ``<storage-root>/apps/<manifest-id>``.
- If the same manifest id exists in both internal and external, confirm the package content in the higher-priority directory is correct; duplicates are skipped.

.. _system-core-troubleshooting-sec-02:

App Not Installed
--------------------

``Expected app is not installed`` usually means the package was not scanned or manifest parsing failed. Check:

- Whether ``<storage-root>/apps/<manifest-id>/manifest.json`` exists.
- Whether the manifest contains the ``package`` and ``runtime`` objects.
- Whether ``runtime.type`` maps to a runtime backend compiled in.

.. _system-core-troubleshooting-sec-03:

Manifest Parse Failure
----------------------

Common causes:

- ``package.id``, ``package.version``, ``runtime.type``, or ``runtime.entry`` is missing or not a string.
- ``runtime.arguments`` is not a string array.
- The runtime GUI startup flow is not written in ``screen_flows[]`` of ``<runtime.resource_dir>/profile.json``.
- ``runtime.entry`` or ``runtime.resource_dir`` is absolute or contains ``..``.

.. _system-core-troubleshooting-sec-04:

GUI Root Load Failure
---------------------

Check:

- Whether the native app's ``get_gui_descriptor().root_kind`` and ``root`` are correct.
- Whether the runtime app's ``profile.json`` descriptor exists and the JSON UI document referenced by ``root`` exists.
- Whether the ``root`` path is relative to the app resource directory.
- Whether the ``${image.xxx}`` or ``${font.xxx}`` used by the native app is provided through ``get_gui_descriptor().resources``.
- Whether ``screen_flows[]`` contains at least one startup flow.

.. _system-core-troubleshooting-sec-05:

View Not Found
--------------------

When ``SystemGui`` returns ``View not found``, check:

- Whether the app has started and the GUI document is loaded.
- Whether the path/flow id of ``TriggerScreenFlow`` or ``SetText`` belongs to the current app's GUI document.
- Whether the view path is absolute.
- After dynamically creating a view, whether the instance path matches the path generated by the JSON UI runtime.

.. _system-core-troubleshooting-sec-06:

Service Permission Denied
-------------------------

A regular runtime app calling ``SystemCore.StartApp`` or ``StopApp`` is rejected, and a regular runtime app can only request to close itself. A native app must call through ``AppContext::system_service()`` instead of simulating a runtime service call.

.. _system-core-troubleshooting-sec-07:

Resource Id Conflict
--------------------

When the log shows image/font resource id already registered:

- Check whether multiple native apps use the same resource id.
- Check whether a single native app's ``get_gui_descriptor().resources`` returns duplicate ids.
- The current version does not support sharing the same runtime resource id across apps.

.. _system-core-troubleshooting-sec-08:

Timer Not Firing
--------------------

Check:

- Whether the timer interval/delay is greater than ``0``.
- Whether the app is still ``Running``.
- ``stop_app()`` auto-cancels all timers of the app.
